docs: Added docs for emergency upgrades (#2633)
cosmos/gaia: docs/validators/emergency-upgrades.md

---
order: 5
title: Emergency Upgrades
---

> ## **Introduction**

Reviewer: might also want to provide quick definitions in here since you mention "coordinated" and "un-coordinated" in the sections below (line 22)

ie, 

state-breaking: requires a chain halt before upgrading 
coordinated upgrade: all validators must set a specific halt-height and run the new binary at that time.
un-coordinated upgrade: patch can be applied at the validators soonest availability

If the change is **does not** require co-ordination, then the patch can be applied by validators **asap**.

If the change requires co-ordination, then all validators will need to set a block or halt-height as highlighted in the communications.

#### **Co-ordinated Upgrades**

A co-ordinated upgrade will require updating your node configuration to the correct halt-height. The relevant teams will communicate the correct height for all validators via Email and [Discord](https://discord.com/channels/669268347736686612/798937713474142229).

At the halt-height, you will swap out the old binaries for the new ones, while monitoring your node. Be sure to check-in on the [cosmos-hub-validators-verified](https://discord.com/channels/669268347736686612/798937713474142229) channel on [Cosmos Developers Discord](https://discord.gg/cosmosnetwork), as notifications will be made pre/during/post upgrade on **this** channel.

If you do have issues with the upgrade, please bring them up in the [Discord channel](https://discord.com/channels/669268347736686612/798937713474142229) where the core teams will be monitoring progress and will help you resolve any issues that arise.

> Once the threshold of 67% voting power of upgraded validators is reached, the Cosmos Hub network will start producing blocks. Note that this process might take between 5-20 mins depending on the required migrations for the upgrade and voting power present. Please be patient and check the [Discord channel](https://discord.com/channels/669268347736686612/798937713474142229) for any updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the threshold of 67% voting power is back online, the Cosmos Hub network will start producing blocks. Note that this process might take between 5-20 mins depending on the required migrations for the upgrade and voting power present. Please be patient and check the [Discord channel](https://discord.com/channels/669268347736686612/798937713474142229) for any updates. 

Also, please note that a situation may arise in which 67% of voting power is online, but 67% of validators have not updgraded to the correct binary. Please stay on-call until it is confirmed that >67% of voting power is patched. 
```
